I took full advantage of the unusual setting of my residency, situated at a quaternary center in advanced heart disease and transplant with a large ICU to match. Our site is just small enough not to have subspecialty fellows in place, allowing me to complete comprehensive rotations in the cardiac ICU and with the mechanical support and transplant cardiology service. Working one-on-one with respective attendings, I managed complex cases involving mechanical cardiac support and heart transplants—experiences that are unheard of among internal medicine residents. In the end, I reached the ACGME limit for critical care experiences of six months.
I was also fortunate to learn in outpatient, inpatient, and procedural pulmonology contexts. As Spokane is the primary hub for cystic fibrosis care for eastern Washington, I have cared for about ten individuals over several often protracted admissions.
To sum up my research interests, I am obsessed with human error – not in enjoyment of the failure, but in the prediction and elimination of it. While considering a career in aviation early on, this manifested first as an interest in aircraft accident investigations. These tragedies led to the development of an investigative, training, and reporting architecture that has made aviation the safest mode of transport per mile travelled by far. While my internet searches have likely landed me on a few watch lists, I contend there are paradigm-shifting insights and practices in many industries we can use to combat predictable mistakes. In that vein, I co-authored a case report on a misdiagnosed neuroendocrine neoplasm presenting as refractory asthma and benign-sized pulmonary nodules, highlighting the importance of challenging initial hypotheses.
Currently, I'm developing a NASA-inspired training program to enhance residents' point-of-care ultrasound skills, with results expected this fall.
To further prepare for PCCM training and broaden my teaching skills, I am completing a year as Clinician Educator Fellow. My efforts have been well-received - In addition to regular teaching on rounds and during noon conference, I have been invited as guest lecturer to the Washington State University Spokane cohort. I will arrive to fellowship with a year of experience as a full-time attending and educator, translating to a high level of performance from day one.
A career in pulmonary and critical care medicine is the best fit to my strengths and interests. The dual fellowship’s broad scope matches both my curiosity and demonstrated aptitude in both complex clinical investigation and high-acuity management. This training offers complementary skillsets as generalist, specialist, and proceduralist which are mutually reinforcing.
My broad hands-on experience, self-directed learning, and commitment to education make me an ideal candidate for pulmonary and critical care fellowship. I am prepared to give my all to this pursuit. Thank you for your consideration.
