# IU maybe

From the earliest days of my medical training, I have been drawn to the dynamic and challenging fields of pulmonary medicine and critical care. Through my internal medicine residency and my current role as faculty attending, I have gained invaluable experiences and developed a skill set that I am eager to refine and expand. With great enthusiasm, I seek to join a fellowship program in which I can continue this process.
I took full advantage of the unusual setting of my residency, situated at a quaternary center in advanced heart disease and transplant with a large ICU to match. Our site is just small enough to have no subspecialty fellows, allowing me to complete rotations in the cardiac ICU and with the mechanical support and transplant cardiology service. Working one-on-one with respective attendings, I managed mechanical cardiac support and heart transplant cases - experiences unheard of among internal medicine residents.
My exposure to pulmonology across outpatient and procedural settings revealed its inherent challenges and the impact it has when practiced well. As Spokane is the primary cystic fibrosis care hub of eastern Washington, I managed complex CF cases, witnessing firsthand the power of evolving precision medicine. Pulmonary disease fascinates me, driving my eagerness to tackle challenging cases and expand my knowledge. Moreover, I recognize that honing procedural skills will be of great use in those investigations.
To sum up my research interests, I am obsessed with the prediction and elimination of human error. In that vein, I co-authored a case report describing what appeared to be refractory asthma and a few tiny pulmonary nodules but was found to be a rare neuroendocrine neoplasm as the treating clinicians realized the initial hypothesis did not fit. Currently, I am developing a NASA-inspired training program to enhance residents' point-of-care ultrasound skills, with results expected this fall.
To further prepare for PCCM training and broaden my teaching skills, I am completing a year as Clinician Educator Fellow. My efforts have been well-received - in addition to teaching on rounds and during noon conference, I have been invited as guest lecturer to the Washington State University’s Spokane medical student cohort. I will enter fellowship with a year of experience as full-time attending and educator, translating to high performance from day one.
A PCCM career is the best fit to my strengths and interests. Dual fellowship’s broad scope matches my curiosity and demonstrated aptitude. This training offers the rare opportunity to be an excellent generalist, specialist, and proceduralist, which I will earn with all my might. My hands-on experience, self-direction, and commitment to education make me an ideal candidate for pulmonary and critical care fellowship.
I look forward to working side by side with you. Thank you for your consideration.
